Syntactic parsing, then, is the task of recognizing a sentence and assigning a syntactic structure to it.

This chapterpresents three of the most widely used parsing algorithms for automatically assigning a complete context-free (phrase-structure) tree to an input sentence.

a sentence that cannot be parsed may have grammatical errors (or at least be hard to read)

top-down and bottom-up search strategies.

minimum-Edit-Distance
sitten （k→s）
sittin （e→i）
sitting （→g）
　　俄罗斯科学家Vladimir Levenshtein在1965年提出这个概念。因此也叫Levenshtein Distance。

例如

    如果str1="ivan"，str2="ivan"，那么经过计算后等于 0。没有经过转换。相似度=1-0/Math.Max(str1.length,str2.length)=1
    如果str1="ivan1"，str2="ivan2"，那么经过计算后等于1。str1的"1"转换"2"，转换了一个字符，所以距离是1，相似度=1-1/Math.Max(str1.length,str2.length)=0.8 

Viterbi

13. l Parsing as Search
finding the right path through a finite-state automaton or finding the right transduction for an input can be viewed as a search problem.
In syntactic parsing, the parser can be viewed as searching through the space of possible parse trees to find the correct parse tree for a given sentence.so the search space of possible parse trees is defined by a grammar.（ 航空旅行信息系统（ATIS）语料库）

two search strategics underlying most parsers: top-down or goal-directed search,and bottom-up or data-directed search.（the rationalist tradition, which emphasizes the use of prior knowleclgc, and the empiricist tradition, which emphasizes the data in front of us.）

13.1.1 Top-Down Parsing
A top-clown parser searches for a parse tree by trying to build from the root node Sdown to the leaves.
In the grammar in Fig. 13.1, three rules expand S, so the second ply, or level, of the search space in Fig. 13.3 has three partial trees.We next expand the· constituents in these three new trees, just as we originally expanded S.

13.1.2 Bottom-Up Parsing
In bottom-up parsing the parser starts with the words of the input, and tries to build trees from the words up, again by applying rules from the grammar one at a time.